You've chosen the best health insurance
policy for yourself, finalized the best health
insurance policy,
thoroughly understood all the coverage benefits and features,
and now comes the final
decision: "I'll buy this policy." This will be
needed if you deal with a claim
or use this policy in the future. So, it's
crucial that you make
this decision thoughtfully.
What are the policy buying options? The first option is to
buy directly from the insurance company's website.
You'll also get online discounts. The second option is to
buy from an online broker or web aggregator,
such as Policy Bazaar, PhonePe,
Deto Insurance, or many other
brokers that offer health insurance policies. The
third option is to
buy from an agent or consultant
to get better help and service.
However, buying a health insurance policy from all three of these sources has
its own
benefits and disadvantages,
which we'll discuss in detail in today's video
so you can
easily understand them by the end of the video.  You will get complete
clarity on
where you should buy your health insurance policy
and not regret this decision in the future.
We are going to compare these three options
on a total of four criteria.
What will these parameters be?
First, we will compare on price, that is,
where will you get the cheapest policy among these three options? The second
criterion is after-service claim support, that is,
whenever a claim comes and you
need support,
which option will provide you the best support? The third
criterion is policy information or
awareness, or any
information you need about its coverages. We will also learn how you can
communicate quickly and effectively about it by
purchasing a policy. The
fourth and
final criterion is personal attention. We
really like someone to listen to our problems
personally and tell us the solution. So, in terms of
personal attention, which is the best option for
buying a health insurance policy?
We are going to learn all this in today's video. So, why wait,
let's quickly
start the video.  The first parameter is
price, meaning
where can you find the cheapest health insurance policy? The
first option we discuss is online
directly. If you purchase
your health insurance policy from an online insurance company's website,
some
insurance companies offer a 10% discount, while others offer a
5% discount.
This is an upfront payment.
This is a one-time discount whenever
you purchase a policy. Our second option is to
purchase a policy from an online broker
or web aggregator. If we
purchase a health insurance policy from an online broker, we are also
offered an online discount of 5% to 7%.
This is also a one-time
discount. We will receive this discount
from a web aggregator or broker.
Finally, it's the turn of insurance consultants
or agents. They don't offer you such
discounts directly online;
their prices are fixed.
However, if you look at the ground level, a
lot of bargaining is done
with insurance agents or consultants.
If you do this,
it will definitely impact your future services.
Now, suppose
you purchased a policy from an insurance agent and you
negotiated a discount, bargained,
and he offered you a discount from his profit share.
First of all, this rebate is illegal.
Insurance agents cannot do this,
nor should they ask you to do so,
because this is the profit they use to pay for your
claim. If a
claim arises or you need support in the future,
they wo
n't charge you for it again because
you already issued the policy with them, so they are
responsible for the claim. However,
if you take a discount,
you may
not fully benefit from the support because you've already covered its
cost.
Another criterion for discounts comes into play,
friends.
We've now studied all the features of a health insurance policy,
reviewed all the benefits, but there are still
many technical issues
we may face while making a claim,
or if we have questions about purchasing a policy.
After this question comes to our mind,
where will we get awareness or information about it? If you buy a
policy directly from the insurance company's website,
you will have to call the toll-free number
and confirm
your point. You will get the answer to your query from there.
What is the difference?
You will have to call customer care every time for different queries
and different executives will answer them. To
tell someone about its connection or track,
you will have to repeat your query and
your story every time
because there is no one person there who is handling all your
queries. Next
comes the broker.
You will have to call their helpline number as well. Your
digital RM or virtual RM will
answer your query. But the
assigned helpline number will be your support
or contact from where you will
get such help. Now comes the turn of the insurance
agent. In this case, you will have to
call the insurance agent directly so that they can
resolve your query. If there is
something that they are not sure about, they can seek
help from the branch.  You can, and with the help of the branch,
they will resolve your query. The
special thing here is that the touch
point, contact person, contact number will remain the same.
Now friends, comes the most important
parameter. The most important criterion is
claim support. Now, after we have purchased the policy,
God forbid, a claim comes in,
and it does come in because that is why we
bought the policy to avoid that risk. And then a
claim comes in, and we
feel stuck because now we do not know
what to do next. The insurance company has
asked a query or rejected the claim,
deducted some money from the claim amount,
asked for additional documents. So, let us
discuss from which vertical, i.e., which option, what support can you get in claim support.
First of all, if
you have purchased the policy directly from the insurance company, then
how will you get claim support or how
can you get it. You will have to do the claim intimation
yourself because you are present there
where the patient is being admitted or if
someone from your family member is there, then this
claim  Whatever assistance is provided by the TPA, no
executive from the insurance company will come there. The second issue is
document submission. Now, suppose there is a claim for
which you applied for cashless approval
but did not receive it and later
you have to file a remembrance claim, that is,
you have to submit all the documents
to the insurance company.
You will have to do that work yourself
because the insurance company can provide you with telephone
assistance, but you will have to do the document
submission work yourself.
Now, what is the problem here?
In some companies, you can do this work through an online app,
that is, you can take a photo with your mobile phone
and it will be uploaded on their app.
There, you can submit this claim document
directly from your phone,
but that too is not an easy method.
If a policyholder has
technical difficulties in doing certain things or is
not well versed in phone procedures, then
they may face difficulty in uploading these documents.
However, if
you are technically  If it's sound, you
can submit it yourself. Where does the problem arise?
Some companies require you to
submit physical documents at the branch,
or you have to get
physical copies of your diagnosis and treatment documents
at their head office.
It becomes quite difficult to leave your work and
submit these documents,
and this is an additional task for you.
However, if you availed an online discount
from the insurance company, then you will have to do this work
yourself. The next point is
query handling. Friends, if you receive a
query from the insurance company
that is beyond your understanding, then from
whom will you seek guidance regarding it? If
you call the insurance company's toll-free number, then
most of the people there will talk to the sales
representative or customer
representative who may
not understand the technical aspect of the matter very
well. So, according to
me,
you can face problems there too. Finally,
friends, when the claim is rejected, suppose the
company rejects the entire claim, then
how will you tell the same insurance company that I will file a complaint against you
or  How will the insurance company
advise you that they have
wronged you? You should file a complaint against them
because they issued the policy and
rejected the claim. So, you
are alone on this side, and on the other side, it's just the
insurance company, their policy, and your
claim rejection. There's no
third party or third party
perspective who can provide you with better advice
or tell you what to do next.
Overall,
if you
buy an insurance policy directly from the insurance company's website, the
insurance company has only a small amount of
skin in the game. Their
involvement is limited to just one policy
among thousands of policies issued monthly.
If a claim is rejected or there's a
problem,
they will deal with you as a customer, meaning they wo
n't be able to go out of their way to provide any significant assistance,
as the product is theirs, and the
decision to reject the claim is theirs.
Now, friends, it's time for claim
handling or claim support. If you're
buying your health insurance policy
from a broker or online web
aggregator, you'll be treated as a customer.  Now, what's the difference here? This
is a corporate agent, which means it's
not an insurance company itself. It's an agent, but it's a
large agent that
sells multiple products from multiple companies online. It has a strong
team to support your claims
and provide
other services for your health insurance policies. However,
this depends on which
web aggregator or broker you
purchase your policy from. You'll have to handle the
claim intimation yourself,
as it happens at the hospital itself.
However, if you need any guidance, you can get it by
calling their helpline.
Furthermore, you've filed your claim.
If you want a
broker or online web aggregator to
track your claim status,
you can get that information from them.
You can call their helpline number
or track your status via email. However,
like insurance, you may have to
speak to a different executive each time and explain
your issue to each other.  You have to explain and explain it repeatedly,
and you have to provide status details every time.
But now, the main difference between a broker and a direct
insurance company is that it's
slightly better than an insurance company
because it's not an insurance company itself.
If, for example, your claim is rejected,
or there's a problem, or something
you should claim, meaning
something wrong happens to you, it may
think from a different perspective because
your policy is a small part of its much larger portfolio.
So, corporate agents
or online brokers will have to
think about you and can help you to some extent.
But as
I mentioned, their portfolio
is huge, and your policy is a small
fraction. So,
you may not see much strength in their efforts. Now, friends, let's
finally talk about an agent or a
consultant. If any
claim-related issue arises, claim
support, or claim guidance is
needed. What kind of
services can an agent provide you? The first is claim
intimation, which you have to do yourself. But
even during that time, if you  If you need an agent's help,
you can call them over the phone. Now,
suppose a family member is
admitted to the hospital and I don't
know where to fill out the claim form or
where the TPA desk is. While caring for my patient in the hospital, I
can talk to the agent on the phone and go wherever he tells me to.
I can fill out the claim form with his help,
or I can ask him what to write in which column. This
means a
direct one-on-one connection is established
with your agent. If you're in a dilemma about any claim,
we can get help from the agent during the claim.
But if the claim is rejected
or some money is deducted from the claim,
then we'll call the agent
and ask him why this money was
deducted. Is this deduction correct?
Why did you
not inform us about this coverage, why didn't you provide us with proper guidance,
or is the insurance company
doing something wrong?
We can discuss such questions with our insurance agent.
And he can
also resolve these queries by contacting his branch.
Now, suppose it happens that the
insurance company has deducted this money wrongly and
they should have paid this claim, then at least
he will stand with you, that is, at least he will
say that the insurance company is doing wrong,
we should complain here,
write to the Grievances Department or file a
complaint with IRDA, because
their small portfolio, your
policies, your references, your renewals,
matter a lot to them, so if you do
n't get their support during the claim, it can have a
huge impact on their portfolio and their business, that is, they have a
lot of skin in the game, so you
can expect better support from the agent. The
next point is friends, if a cashless
claim gets rejected, a reimbursement
claim has to be filed, pre- and post-
hospital claims have to be filed, a hospital
cash claim has to be filed, documents have to be
submitted to the branch, documents have to be
uploaded, you can take the agent's help at every point, even at
one point, if
you get stuck somewhere  If you have any,
you can get confirmation about that as well.
You don't need to repeat your story every time
because
you can start your next conversation from where you left off last time
because your point of
contact is with the same person, with the same
person and you and they already know your
problem, they already know your story
and they should
help you with what to do.
Now friends, the final criterion
comes of personal attention. Now
why have I included this criterion
in this comparison because we are humans, we find it
better to deal with problems individually rather than being given
a common solution while the
problems may differ slightly.
Suppose I went to a doctor in the
OPD where 50 patients were
sitting and the doctor came out and said that
brother, whoever has a throat problem should
note down this medicine and all those
patients can take this medicine or that
experience, it is better that the doctor
calls me.  Ask me what's bothering me in the throat,
how long has it been, why did it arise, and after
diagnosing me personally,
tell me the solution, the medicines, and the treatment.
Personal attention is important because every
problem can have slight variations,
and their solutions can also be slightly different. A slight difference in the
solution makes
things work. Therefore, personal
attention is very important even in the case of health insurance.
First of all,
if you buy a policy online directly
from the insurance company's website,
then the personal attention will be very less because the
scope of policy sales is very large, that is,
policies are sold in very large numbers, in which
we have a small
fraction, hence it is
not possible to give a direct personal touch to that thing.
For me, whether I am in Delhi or
someone in Karnataka, there is only
one toll free number for everyone, where we will
talk to different executives, and it depends on the
expertise,
knowledge, and experience of the executive as to what solution he offers you. So,
I think personal attention is very important.
You will get a smaller portion, much less share, in buying a direct policy. Now, if we
talk about personal attention with a broker or a web
aggregator, then it will be a little
more there than with a direct insurance company.
What is the reason, brother, now Policy Bazaar has
said that in
more than 80 major cities of India, they are
assigning personal claims handling teams, that is,
if a patient or an
insured person faces any medical problem, faces
any difficulty,
files a claim, then their representative
claims manager will go there to
help them in filing their claim.
But this is possible only in big cities.
What will happen in smaller cities? In this way,
if there are smaller cities, you may be
assigned a dedicated RM there, who will be the
same person, the same person. If
you ever need help with this policy, then
he will help you, that is, it is
a better source of personal attention than buying a policy directly from an insurance company.
If you are a corporate agent, you buy a
policy from a broker or a web aggregator.
So, finally, friends, it's the
agent's turn. Agents specialize
in personal touch because they're the only person
providing you with the policy. They have a
single contact number, a single office, a
single place where you'll receive all the
support, information, documents, and
advice.
Because of this single touchpoint, you're guaranteed personal
attention. After purchasing a policy from an agent, if
things get stuck, if the
conversation stalls, or if they don't understand something,
they can seek branch support.
This policy
is in their business portfolio, and the branch will also
help them maintain customer retention. This policy impacts their
business and the
branch's business. Therefore, their
efforts and their efforts will be
more visible to you, and this
significantly impacts the personal touch. If you've
watched the video up to this point, then
after reviewing all the information, you might think
I'm a little biased toward an insurance
agent or consultant rather than someone who  Buying a policy from a
broker or a direct insurance
company is not something I get a
lot of queries from, a lot of
problems I notice.
These things I'm
telling you aren't written down anywhere; they're
my personal experience. These are
your own words, your own comments, and
I've presented them to you.
Now, it's not necessary that every insurance
agent will provide you with claims support, personal attention,
or
help you with information and awareness. Choosing
a good insurance agent is just as
important as choosing the best
health insurance policy or the best
health insurance company, because they're going to be
your touchpoint. They're going to provide
all the services. So,
instead of getting a single, lifetime discount of a small amount of 5-10 percent,
you're getting an additional service provider,
a claims manager, and
an advisor who will
help you everywhere
and stay in touch directly. There's nothing better than that.  You can
directly call one place when you are
feeling helpless or
stuck anywhere, but what is a good
insurance agent, how to
identify it, what are the qualities of a good
insurance agent, it is very important for you to know this
because there are many agents,
many do insurance work,
but to ensure that your agent does not live up to your expectations, it is
very important for you to notice some qualities, the
first point is how much knowledge he has about his product,
you should
not buy your insurance policy from those who know you,
you should buy your insurance policy from those who know
their profession, their
field, who understand insurance, that is, it is
not necessary to buy insurance with knowledge, but those who understand their field
well, who sell their products
well.  We understand that
you should buy the policy from those who have a lot of experience in claims. This
means that you should check
whether your insurance agent has
complete knowledge about their product
or not. Because the more
this knowledge they have, the more
they will be able to help you at the time of claim. Second,
experience is any profession, whether it is a service
industry. The more
experience someone has in any profession, the more
problems they will have, the more solutions they will have found for
any problem. The
more scenarios they will have seen,
the more situations they will have
faced. So they will have a better outlook to
guide you out and
show you the way. When you get stuck in any difficulty, then
you should also check the experience of your insurance agent once and see
how much time they have been in this industry. The
third point is that they should have a
permanent office, a permanent counter, it is
not that they are roaming in the market
or doing some other work. Brother, their
work is a medicine shop and they are also
providing insurance policies,
so full time.
Why do I say this should be their profession? Now, suppose
you have an emergency need at 11:00 pm
and you need policy details. Those who are
in this profession full time will have
complete data which will be stacked and
arranged and they can find your policy from there and
give it to you immediately. Apart from this, at the
time of renewals, you will get a proper call and
follow up because this is their full time
job. They do this full time and
you also matter to them because
your policy is their product and
apart from this, they are not in any other profession.
If there may be some other profession
which is more profitable, then it is possible that they may
not pay attention to it. So, those who
work full time in insurance should have a
permanent office, a counter where
you can go and visit.
You should have such an insurance agent and
finally, for a legal formality, he must be
certified, IRD certified or registered.
Now friends, till this point you have understood
that
buying a policy directly from the insurance company's website or through a
broker or web
What are the advantages and disadvantages of buying a policy from an aggregator and from an agent?
I also shared my verdict and
conclusion with you. I believe that you should
n't ignore the many services you receive from your agent in exchange for a small one-time online discount.
This verdict, this conclusion, this
opinion is mine. I could be
wrong, and your opinion could be
different, and
I'm totally comfortable with that. I get a
lot of queries like, "Sir, I
purchased a policy online directly from an insurance company. Can I
map it with an agent? I did
n't get support at the time of claim, or I'm
facing a lot of problems. Sometimes, when I
need information,
I have to do all the work directly." So, can a
policy
purchased online directly from an insurance company be
mapped to an agent's code?
Absolutely. You can confirm the
process on the insurance company's toll-free number.
What is its basic process?  You will have to provide the insurance company with the details
of the insurance agent code of the same company, that is,
their agent code.
After the insurance company's approval, that
policy will be mapped to this agent code.
In the future, you
can avail all the services from that agent, but
for this, the agent's consent is also necessary, and the
insurance company also has no problem with this,
because if their customer is happy, then
they have no problem with this. So, do
not take this decision directly just by looking at the online discount,
because you may need many things in the future.
Now let's talk about whether the
policy you have purchased directly from a web aggregator or an insurance broker can be
mapped to an agent. It cannot be
mapped. You may get the
insurance policy ported, this is possible,
but the same policy will not be mapped
because the insurance broker web aggregator
itself is a corporate agent, which is
not a person itself; basically, it is a company that
sells different insurance products. So, you will not be able to map the
same policy or the product of the same company to
an individual agent.  If you
purchased a policy from an insurance broker, friends, you've seen that
you purchase insurance policies from different sources. So far, friends, you've seen that you
purchase insurance policies from different sources. So, what
financial benefits can you receive and
what problems can you face with support?
My sole purpose in making this video was to present to you the
problems that arise after purchasing a policy, the reality, the
facts, so
that you
can make effective and smart decisions when purchasing a policy, so that
you don't
regret later that you bought the policy from the wrong place. I
hope this information will be
very helpful. If
you have any doubts about any point in the video, or if you
want to share your experience
related to any point in the video or the place where you purchased the policy,
you can do so in the comments section. If
you want to know more about any point in detail,
you can also mention it in the comments.
I will definitely respond to your comments.
If you liked the information in the video,
understood it, and it
created even a little clarity in your mind, please like the video.
We get a lot of support and
if you have not subscribed to this channel till now then
please subscribe to the channel.
I, Harvinder Singh, now take your
permission and will get it in the next video. Till then, take care of yourself,
stay happy and
stay healthy. Jai Hind.